Add Kibana documentation (#1874)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/kibana.asciidoc

** <<{p}-kibana-http-publish,Load balancer settings and TLS SANs>>
** <<{p}-kibana-http-custom-tls,Provide your own certificate>>
** <<{p}-kibana-http-disable-tls,Disable TLS>>

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-eck-managed-es"]
=== Use an Elasticsearch cluster managed by ECK

It is quite straightforward to connect a Kibana instance to an Elasticsearch cluster managed by ECK:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: kibana.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Kibana
metadata:
  name: quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: quickstart
    namespace: default
----

NOTE: `namespace` is optional if the Elasticsearch cluster is running in the same namespace as Kibana.

The Kibana configuration file is automatically setup by ECK to establish a secure connection to Elasticsearch.

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-advanced-configuration"]
=== Advanced configuration

If you already have read the documentation about how to run Elasticsearch on ECK then most of the concepts and the ideas
described here will sound familiar to you.
This is because the resource definitions in ECK share the same philosophy when it comes to:

> * Customize the Pod configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Customizing the Pod configuration
```

> * Customize the product configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Customizing the product configuration
```

> * Manage HTTP settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Managing HTTP settings
```

> * Use secure settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Using secure settings
```

  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: "elasticsearch-sample"
  podTemplate:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: kibana
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: 1Gi
            cpu: 0.5
          limits:
            memory: 2Gi
            cpu: 2
      nodeSelector:
        type: frontend
----

NOTE: The name of the container in the pod template must be `kibana`.

See <<{p}-compute-resources-kibana-and-apm>> for more information.

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-configuration"]
==== Kibana Configuration
You can add your own Kibana settings to the `spec.config` section.

The following example demonstrates how to set the `elasticsearch.requestHeadersWhitelist` configuration option:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: kibana.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Kibana
metadata:
  name: kibana-sample
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: "elasticsearch-sample"
  config:
     elasticsearch.requestHeadersWhitelist:
     - authorization
----

NOTE: The configuration items you provide always take precedence over the ones that are generated by the operator.

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-scaling"]
=== Scale out a Kibana deployment

> You may want to deploy more than one instance of Kibana. In this case all the instances have to share

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may want to deploy more than one instance of Kibana. In this case all the instances must share
```

> the same encryption key.

Reviewer: Should this be a new line?

> This can be done either directly in the `spec.config` section:

Reviewer: I wonder if we should make it clearer that this is not the recommended way to do it

Author: > LGTM, a couple of nits. Another thing I realized we might want to call out is how to connect to an external cluster, e.g.
> [#1875 (comment)](https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/issues/1875#issuecomment-539886642)
> 
> because it's easy to configure it insecurely (for instance, putting the ES password in the Kibana spec rather than a secret), so it would be helpful to give people a clear and secure example

👍 , and this is what I wanted to do at first when I realized that user must provide a reference to an Elasticsearch cluster. I'm not sure it makes sense to talk about that until #1875 is resolved.

Author: 👍 I have remove the example, not sure it is a good idea to explain how to do insecure things.

[id="{p}-kibana"]
== Running Kibana on ECK

The link:k8s-quickstart.html#k8s-deploy-kibana[quickstart] is a good starting point to quickly setup a Kibana instance with ECK.

> This section goes into more detail about how to configure Kibana with ECK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections describe how to customize a Kibana deployment to suit your requirements.
```

** <<{p}-kibana-http-disable-tls,Disable TLS>>

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-eck-managed-es"]
=== Use an Elasticsearch cluster managed by ECK

Connecting Kibana to an Elasticsearch instance managed by ECK is pretty straightforward.
Here is an example of a minimal Kibana deployment descriptor:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: kibana.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Kibana
metadata:
  name: quickstart
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: quickstart
    namespace: default
----

NOTE: `namespace` is an optional parameter that you can use to connect to an Elasticsearch in another namespace.

The Kibana configuration file is automatically setup by ECK to establish a secure connection to Elasticsearch.

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-advanced-configuration"]
=== Advanced configuration

If you already have read the documentation about how to run Elasticsearch on ECK then most of the concepts and the ideas
described here will sound familiar to you.
This is because the resource definitions in ECK share the same philosophy when it comes to:

* Customize the Pod configuration
* Customize the product configuration

> * Manage the HTTP settings

Reviewer 3: Consider rewording with:

> If you already looked at the Elasticsearch on ECK documentation, then concepts and ideas
>   described here might sound familiar to you.
>   This is because the resource definitions in ECK share the same philosophy when it comes to:
>  
>   * Customize the Pod configuration
>   * Customize the product configuration
>   * Manage the HTTP settings

* Use some secure settings

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-pod-configuration"]
==== Pod Configuration

> The Kibana resource definition lets you define your own Pod template, add your own settings and merge them

Reviewer 3: Capitalize Pod?

apiVersion: kibana.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Kibana
metadata:
  name: kibana-sample
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: "elasticsearch-sample"
  config:
     elasticsearch.requestHeadersWhitelist:
     - authorization
----

NOTE: The configuration items you provide always take precedence over the ones that are generated by the operator.

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-scaling"]
=== Scaling out a Kibana deployment

You may want to deploy more than one instance of Kibana. In this case all the instances have to share
the same encryption key.

This can be done either directly in the `spec.config` section:

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  config:
     xpack.security.encryptionKey: my-secret-key
----

Or by using a secure setting (recommended) as described in the next section.

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-secure-settings"]
=== Secure Settings

You can use Kubernetes secrets to hold your secure settings in the link:k8s-es-secure-settings.html[same way it is done with Elasticsearch].

As an example, if you want to scale out your Kibana deployment by creating several instances then you have to
set `xpack.security.encryptionKey` in the Kibana configuration.

> . First create a secret with the secret setting:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a secret containing the desired setting:
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
kubectl create secret generic kibana-secret-settings \
 --from-literal=xpack.security.encryptionKey=94d2263b1ead716ae228277049f19975aff864fb4fcfe419c95123c1e90938cd
----
+

> . Then add a reference to this secret in the `secureSettings` section:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add a reference to the secret in the `secureSettings` section:
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: kibana.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Kibana
metadata:
  name: kibana-sample
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 3
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: "elasticsearch-sample"
  secureSettings:
  - secretName: kibana-secret-settings
----

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-http-configuration"]
=== HTTP Configuration

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-http-publish"]
==== Load balancer settings and TLS SANs

> By default a `ClusterIP` link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/[service] is created and associated to the Kibana deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default a `ClusterIP` link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/[service] is created and associated with the Kibana deployment.
```

> You may want to expose Kibana onto an external IP address with a link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer[LoadBalancer]. In this case you may also want to include a custom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may want to expose Kibana externally with a link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer[load balancer]. In which case you may also want to include a custom
```

DNS name or IP in the self-generated certificate.

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: kibana.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: Kibana
metadata:
  name: kibana-sample
spec:
  version: {version}
  count: 1
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: "elasticsearch-sample"
  http:
    service:
      spec:
        type: LoadBalancer # default is ClusterIP
    tls:
      selfSignedCertificate:
        subjectAltNames:
        - ip: 1.2.3.4
        - dns: kibana.example.com
----

You can also use these two features separately, either expose the service or add some subjects to the

> self-signed certificate.

Reviewer 2: I don't think these two lines are necessary.

Reviewer: Same thing here with the new line. For what it's worth I am okay with the extra verbosity but understand Charith's concern since we already had described them separately above.

[float]
[id="{p}-kibana-http-custom-tls"]
==== Provide your own certificate

> If you want to use your own certificate the relevant configuration is identical to what is done for Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use your own certificate, the required configuration is identical to Elasticsearch.  See: <<{p}-custom-http-certificate>>.
```

> See link:k8s-accessing-elastic-services.html#k8s-setting-up-your-own-certificate[Setting up your own certificate] for more information on how to use your own certificate to configure the TLS endpoint of Kibana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
